[Music]
so here's a point to ponder what will
happen to your body if you start eating
oats every day well if you start eating
like a horse you may not start looking
like a horse but you might start
smelling like yeah it's not true
now they say breakfast is the most
important meal of the day so corny isn't
it yet doctors and nutritionists alike
haven't stopped recommending having
oatmeal as your morning meal and that's
because they know that good quality oats
those that are environmentally friendly
and free of impurities make you feel and
look better on the inside and out we'll
get into that and if you stick around
until the end of the video will give you
some amazing ideas to turn a boring
plain old oatmeal breakfast into a
delicious feast number one your skin
will look better
oatmeal is ideal for treating
inflammatory conditions like eczema
dermatitis and skin rashes it also
promotes healthy skin overall oats have
some unique properties thanks to a wide
variety of vitamins and minerals they
contain zinc helps cleanse the skin and
remove toxins and other harmful
compounds it also effectively minimises
large pores and has a rejuvenating
effect iron is one of the most important
elements for the nutrition and
saturation of moisture in skin cells
manganese reduces swelling and
inflammation it also promotes rapid
healing of the skin after Ward's bruises
burns and other micro injuries magnesium
promotes blood circulation and
noticeable skin cell renewal number two
your muscles will get much needed
protein if you ask around about what
your body needs to build muscles most
people will probably tell you the answer
is protein but not everybody knows that
while protein is extremely important
your body also demands carbohydrates and
fats both of which you can find in
oatmeal
herbs provide you with energy and that's
exactly what you need for an effective
workout when serving or about 1/2 a cup
of oatmeal gives your body 15% of the
recommended daily amount of protein
don't forget about vitamin E
antioxidants and glutamate which help
muscle fibres regenerate faster 3 you'll
get a boost of antioxidants oats are
rich in antioxidants that help alleviate
itching inflammation and high blood
pressure antioxidants are important
since they contain beta glucan which
lowers blood sugar and increases the
production of nitric oxide this gas
improves circulation by dilating blood
vessels not only that beta glucan
reduces cholesterol levels promotes the
growth of good bacteria in your
digestive tract and increases the
feeling of fullness after meals all of
these effects are enhanced with the
presence of vitamin C it's not
completely random that most breakfast
menus often combine orange juice with
oatmeal you'll be full of energy like we
mentioned earlier oatmeal is full of
carbohydrates that give your body the
energy it needs it's recommended to
consume oats a little on the dry side as
you'll feel fuller for much longer
eliminating the need for other foods
oats are also packed with other
essential nutrients in just half a cup
you'll get 191 percent of the
recommended dietary intake or RDI of
manganese 41% of the RDI of phosphorus
34% of the RDI of magnesium 24% of the
RDI of copper 20% of the RDI of zinc and
iron 11% of the RDI of Fowley
39% of the RDI of vitamin B 10% of the
RDI of vitamin b5 and smaller amounts of
other useful nutrients number five
you'll lose weight the slow
carbohydrates found in oatmeal help curb
your appetite and maintain normal blood
sugar levels and all those nutrients we
just talked about not only boost your
metabolism but also prevent the
accumulation of fat and toxins in the
body and remember that beta glucan we
mentioned earlier how can you forget it
keeps you from overeating by helping you
feel fuller for a longer amount of time
it also promotes the release of a sanity
hormone it's typically produced in your
gut when you eat and all of this simply
means accelerated weight loss yeah
number six your cholesterol will
decrease the linoleic acid and soluble
fiber contained in oatmeal
helps lower the level of triglycerides
and bad cholesterol in the blood this
bad cholesterol causes inflammation in
the arteries damaged tissues and an
elevated risk of having a stroke or
heart attack the by now-famous beta
glucan in oats helps reduce cholesterol
in the body and it along with other
nutrients cleans fat from arterial walls
and protects your body from developing
serious diseases like arterial sclerosis
number seven you'll have a lower risk of
developing heart disease oats are rich
in good healthy fats and support the
cells in the heart and circulatory
system thanks to the antioxidants
present and oatmeal the probability of
damage to the walls of blood vessels by
free radicals is reduced significantly
you'll get rid of digestive problems
experts recommend getting at least 25 to
38 grams of dietary fiber every day
since it's ideal for good digestion just
a small portion of oats contains
one-fifth of the recommended daily fiber
intake this will be especially useful
for those who suffer from IBS irregular
bowel movements or constipation in one
study involving 30 elderly people who
had bowel troubles participants were
given desserts or soup containing oat
bran for three months at the end of the
trial the well-being of all the subjects
improved tenfold
what's more 59% of all people managed to
stop using laxatives and now as promised
we'll share with you several recipes
that will help you turn a boring oatmeal
breakfast into something way more
flavorful apple pie oatmeal to boost
your metabolism you'll need 1 cup of
steel-cut oatmeal 2 cups of almond milk
2 teaspoons of cinnamon 2 teaspoons of
maple syrup optional but who wouldn't
add it right
one large apple peeled and cut into
bite-size pieces
and one cup of applesauce preferably
unsweetened combine the milk oatmeal
maple syrup and cinnamon into a saucepan
get it on low stirring occasionally
until the milk is absorbed then mix in
the applesauce as soon as all the liquid
is absorbed in about 15 minutes
throw it in a bowl and enjoy this creamy
sweet tummy warming breakfast oatmeal
raisin cookies mmm I love these 4:15
cookies you will need 3/4 cup of flour
1/2 a teaspoon of sea salt 1/2 a
teaspoon of baking soda 2 tablespoons of
butter 1 egg 1 cup of brown sugar 1
teaspoon of cinnamon a half a cup of
apple sauce 1 cup of raisins and 2 cups
of fast cooking oats
mix the flour baking soda salt and
cinnamon in a bowl in another bowl with
the sugar and butter then add the egg
pour in the applesauce and 1/3 of a cup
of water
now you can add the flour mixture throw
in the raisins and oats mix it all
together and place it in the fridge for
at least 20 minutes pre-heat your oven
to 350 and while it's heating up use an
ice cream scoop to put cookie dough
balls on the baking tray don't you eat
those yet I'm watching you wait until
they spread out of it and throw them in
the oven bake the cookies for about 15
minutes until they turn golden brown
you'll go cuckoo for these cookies hey
almond butter banana oatmeal you'll need
one cup of steel-cut oatmeal to kuffs
almond milk 2 tablespoons of almond
butter 2 teaspoons of honey optional but
highly recommended and one thinly sliced
banana mix the oatmeal with the milk in
the saucepan and heat it on low until
the milk is mostly absorbed then add the
almond butter and half the banana slices
stir the mixture and let it soak up the
rest of the liquid when the oatmeal
becomes more or less dry move it to a
ball drizzle with honey and decorate
with the remaining banana slices
ooh Bon Appetit so do you eat oats
regularly if so how do you prepare them
share your recipes with us in the
comments below send this video to all
your friends because oatmeal is good for
everyone and don't forget to give it a
like while you're at it if you haven't
subscribed to our channel yet what are
you waiting for there are so many cool
videos on the bright side of life